Tutorial for single qubit gate calibration (#985)
Qiskit/qiskit-experiments: docs/tutorials/Calibrating_ single-qubit_ gates_on_a_pulse_backend.rst

=============================================================
Calibrating single-qubit gates on a pulse backend
=============================================================
In this tutorial we demonstrate how to calibrate single-qubit gates 
on ``SingleTransmonTestBackend`` using the calibration framework in qiskit-experiments. 

> We will run spectroscopy experiment to find the qubit freqeuncy, 
> calibrate the :math:`\pi` pulse amplitude with Rabi experiment and 
> calibrate the DRAG parameters that minimizes lekage with DRAG experiments. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will run experiments to find the qubit frequency, calibrate the amplitude 
of DRAG pulses and chose the value of the DRAG parameter that minimizes leakage.
```

        cals.add_schedule(x90p, num_qubits=1)

        return cals

    # Add guesses for the parameter values to the calibrations.
    def add_parameter_guesses(cals: Calibrations):
        
        for sched in ["xp", "x90p"]:
            cals.add_parameter_value(80, "σ", schedule=sched)
            cals.add_parameter_value(0.5, "β", schedule=sched)
            cals.add_parameter_value(320, "dur", schedule=sched)
            cals.add_parameter_value(0.5, "amp", schedule=sched)

When setting up the calibrations we add three pulses: a :math:`\pi`-rotation, 
with a schedule named ``xp``, a schedule ``xm`` identical to ``xp`` 
but with a nagative amplitude, and a :math:`\pi/2`-rotation, with a schedule 
named ``x90p``. Here, we have linked the amplitude of the ``xp`` and ``xm`` pulses. 
Therefore, calibrating the parameters of ``xp`` will also calibrate 
the parameters of ``xm``.

.. jupyter-execute::

    cals = setup_cals(backend)
    add_parameter_guesses(cals)

A samilar setup is achieved by using a pre-built library of gates. 
The library of gates provides a standard set of gates and some initial guesses 
for the value of the parameters in the template schedules. 

> This is shown below using the ``FixedFrequencyTransmon`` which provides the ``x``,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is shown below using the ``FixedFrequencyTransmon`` library which provides the ``x``,
```

``y``, ``sx``, and ``sy`` pulses. Note that in the example below 
we change the default value of the pulse duration to 320 samples

.. jupyter-execute::

    from qiskit_experiments.calibration_management.basis_gate_library import FixedFrequencyTransmon

    library = FixedFrequencyTransmon(default_values={"duration": 320})
    cals = Calibrations.from_backend(backend, libraries=[library])
    print(library.default_values()) # check what parameter values this library has
    print(cals.get_inst_map()) # check the new cals's InstructionScheduleMap made from the library
    print(cals.get_schedule('x',(0,))) # check one of the schedules built from the new calibration

> we are going to do the Spectroscopy, Rabi and DRAG experiments in a row 
> and update the parameters after every experiments. 
> Let's keep track of the parameter values focusing on how it is calibrated, updated and saved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are going to run the spectroscopy, Rabi, DRAG, and fine-amplitude calibration experiments 
one after another and update the parameters after every experiment. 
We will keep track of the parameter values after every experiment.
```

====================================
1. Finding qubits with spectroscopy
====================================
Here, we are using a backend for which we already know the qubit frequency. 
We will therefore use the spectroscopy experiment to confirm that 
there is a resonance at the qubit frequency reported by the backend.

.. jupyter-execute::

    from qiskit_experiments.library.calibration.rough_frequency import RoughFrequencyCal

> Check the initial contents of the calibrations for qubit 0 below. 
> The parameters are set by the default values given by the FixedFrequncyTransmon library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

We first show the contents of the calibrations for qubit 0. 
Note that the guess values that we added before apply to all qubits on the chip. 
We see this in the table below as an empty tuple ``()`` in the qubits column. 
Observe that the parameter values of ``y`` do not appear in this table as they are given by the values of ``x``.
```

.. jupyter-execute::

    columns_to_show = ["parameter","qubits","schedule","value","date_time"]    
    pd.DataFrame(**cals.parameters_table(qubit_list=[qubit, ()]))[columns_to_show]

.. jupyter-execute::

    freq01_estimate = backend.defaults().qubit_freq_est[qubit]
    frequencies = np.linspace(freq01_estimate -15e6, freq01_estimate + 15e6, 51)
    spec = RoughFrequencyCal(qubit, cals, frequencies, backend=backend)
    spec.set_experiment_options(amp=0.005)

.. jupyter-execute::

    circuit = spec.circuits()[0]
    circuit.draw(output="mpl")

.. jupyter-execute::

    next(iter(circuit.calibrations["Spec"].values())).draw() # let's check the schedule   
    

.. jupyter-execute::

    spec_data = spec.run().block_for_results()
    spec_data.figure(0) 

.. jupyter-execute::

    print(spec_data.analysis_results("f01"))

> We now update the instance of ``calibrations`` 
> with the value of the frequency we measured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The instance of ``calibrations`` has been automatically updated with the measured
frequency, as shown below.
```

In addition to the columns shown below, the calibrations also store the group to which a value belongs, 
whether a values is valid or not and the experiment id that produce a value.

.. jupyter-execute::

    pd.DataFrame(**cals.parameters_table(qubit_list=[qubit]))[columns_to_show]
    
    
=================================================================
2. Calibrating the pulse amplitudes with a Rabi experiment
=================================================================
In the Rabi experiment we apply a pulse at the frequency of the qubit 
and scan its amplitude to find the amplitude that creates a rotation 

> f a desired angle. We do this with the calibration experiment ``RoughXSXAmplitudeCal``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of a desired angle. We do this with the calibration experiment ``RoughXSXAmplitudeCal``.
```

.. jupyter-execute::

    print(rabi_data.analysis_results("rabi_rate"))

.. jupyter-execute::

    pd.DataFrame(**cals.parameters_table(qubit_list=[qubit, ()], parameters="amp"))[columns_to_show]

The table above shows that we have now updated the amplitude of our :math:`\pi` pulse 
from 0.5 to the value obtained in the most recent Rabi experiment. 
Importantly, since we linked the amplitudes of the ``x`` and ``y`` schedules 
we will see that the amplitude of the ``y`` schedule has also been updated 
as seen when requesting schedules form the ``Calibrations`` instance. 
Furthermore, we used the result from the Rabi experiment to also update 
the value of the ``sx`` pulse. 

.. jupyter-execute::

    cals.get_schedule("sx", qubit)

.. jupyter-execute::

    cals.get_schedule("x", qubit)
   
.. jupyter-execute::

    cals.get_schedule("y", qubit)

=====================================
3. Saving and loading calibrations
=====================================
The values of the calibrated parameters can be saved to a .csv file 
and reloaded at a later point in time. 

.. jupyter-execute::

    cals.save(file_type="csv", overwrite=True, file_prefix="PulseBackend")

> After saving the values of the parameters 
> you may restart your kernel. If you do so, you will only need to run the 
> following cell to recover the state of your calibrations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After saving the values of the parameters you may restart your kernel. If you do so, 
you will only need to run the following cell to recover the state of your calibrations. 
Since the schedules are currently not stored we need to call our ``setup_cals`` function 
or use a library to populate an instance of Calibrations with the template schedules. 
By contrast, the value of the parameters will be recovered from the file.
```

.. jupyter-execute::

    cals = Calibrations.from_backend(backend, library)
    cals.load_parameter_values(file_name="PulseBackendparameter_values.csv")

.. jupyter-execute::

    pd.DataFrame(**cals.parameters_table(qubit_list=[qubit, ()], parameters="amp"))[columns_to_show]

===========================================================
 4. Calibrating the value of the DRAG coefficient
===========================================================

A Derivative Removal by Adiabatic Gate (DRAG) pulse is designed to minimize leakage 

> to a neighbouring transition. It is a standard pulse with an additional 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and phase errors to a neighbouring transition. It is a standard pulse with an additional 
```

    cal_drag.set_experiment_options(reps=[3, 5, 7])
    cal_drag.circuits()[5].draw(output='mpl')

.. jupyter-execute::

    drag_data = cal_drag.run().block_for_results()
    drag_data.figure(0) 

.. jupyter-execute::

    print(drag_data.analysis_results("beta"))

.. jupyter-execute::

    pd.DataFrame(**cals.parameters_table(qubit_list=[qubit, ()], parameters="β"))[columns_to_show]

==========================================================
5. Fine amplitude calibration
==========================================================
The ``FineAmplitude`` calibration experiment repeats :math:`N` times 
a gate with a pulse to amplify the under or over-rotations 
in the gate to determine the optimal amplitude.

.. jupyter-execute::
    
    from qiskit_experiments.library.calibration.fine_amplitude import FineXAmplitudeCal
    amp_x_cal = FineXAmplitudeCal(qubit, cals, backend=backend, schedule_name="x")
    amp_x_cal.circuits()[5].draw(output="mpl")

.. jupyter-execute::

    data_fine = amp_x_cal.run().block_for_results()
    data_fine.figure(0)

.. jupyter-execute::

    print(data_fine.analysis_results("d_theta"))

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The cell below shows how the amplitude is updated based on the error in the rotation angle measured by the FineXAmplitude experiment. Note that this calculation is automatically done by the Amplitude.update function.
```

.. jupyter-execute::

    dtheta = data_fine.analysis_results("d_theta").value.nominal_value
    target_angle = np.pi
    scale = target_angle / (target_angle + dtheta)
    pulse_amp = cals.get_parameter_value("amp", qubit, "x")
    print(f"The ideal angle is {target_angle:.2f} rad. We measured a deviation of {dtheta:.3f} rad.")
    print(f"Thus, scale the {pulse_amp:.4f} pulse amplitude by {scale:.3f} to obtain {pulse_amp*scale:.5f}.")

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Observe, once again, that the calibrations have automatically been updated.

```

    print(cals.get_schedule('x',(0,))) # check one of the schedules built from the new calibration

We are going to run the spectroscopy, Rabi, DRAG, and fine-amplitude calibration experiments 
one after another and update the parameters after every experiment. 
We will keep track of the parameter values after every experiment.

====================================
1. Finding qubits with spectroscopy
====================================
Here, we are using a backend for which we already know the qubit frequency. 
We will therefore use the spectroscopy experiment to confirm that 
there is a resonance at the qubit frequency reported by the backend.

.. jupyter-execute::

    from qiskit_experiments.library.calibration.rough_frequency import RoughFrequencyCal

We first show the contents of the calibrations for qubit 0. 
Note that the guess values that we added before apply to all qubits on the chip. 
We see this in the table below as an empty tuple ``()`` in the qubits column. 
Observe that the parameter values of ``y`` do not appear in this table as they are given by the values of ``x``.

.. jupyter-execute::

>     columns_to_show = ["parameter","qubits","schedule","value","date_time"]    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    columns_to_show = ["parameter", "qubits", "schedule", "value", "date_time"]    
```

    cal_drag.set_experiment_options(reps=[3, 5, 7])
    cal_drag.circuits()[5].draw(output='mpl')

.. jupyter-execute::

    drag_data = cal_drag.run().block_for_results()
    drag_data.figure(0) 

.. jupyter-execute::

    print(drag_data.analysis_results("beta"))

.. jupyter-execute::

    pd.DataFrame(**cals.parameters_table(qubit_list=[qubit, ()], parameters="β"))[columns_to_show]

==========================================================
5. Fine amplitude calibration
==========================================================
The ``FineAmplitude`` calibration experiment repeats :math:`N` times 
a gate with a pulse to amplify the under or over-rotations 
in the gate to determine the optimal amplitude.

.. jupyter-execute::
    
    from qiskit_experiments.library.calibration.fine_amplitude import FineXAmplitudeCal
    amp_x_cal = FineXAmplitudeCal(qubit, cals, backend=backend, schedule_name="x")
    amp_x_cal.circuits()[5].draw(output="mpl")

.. jupyter-execute::

    data_fine = amp_x_cal.run().block_for_results()
    data_fine.figure(0)

.. jupyter-execute::

    print(data_fine.analysis_results("d_theta"))

> The cell below shows how the amplitude is updated based on the error in the rotation angle measured by the FineXAmplitude experiment. Note that this calculation is automatically done by the Amplitude.update function.
> .. jupyter-execute::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The cell below shows how the amplitude is updated based on the error in the rotation angle measured by the FineXAmplitude experiment. Note that this calculation is automatically done by the Amplitude.update function.

.. jupyter-execute::
```
